>>The sheer beauty
and sophistication
of Egyptian artifacts
entrances us.
How can we unlock
the code embedded
in every object they made?
How does the symbolism
in Egyptian art
illuminate their
cultural values?
What ancient secrets still
lie hidden in plain sight?
Our understanding of ancient
Egyptian culture is limited.
Looking at the artifacts
left behind by the ancients,
it is obvious that they had
different values, customs,
and beliefs from ours today.
History books are filled
with stories of war,
invasion of territories,
and patriarchal ways
of being and thinking.
Yet it seems that
ancient Egypt enjoyed
long periods of
peace and prosperity
and a profound connection
with nature and spirit.
Is there a way to
understand the shift?
>>So what we refer
to as history that
began some 6,000
years ago was really
the advent of a different
style of social organization
that's typified by
hierarchies of dominance,
you know, warring deities,
warring mythologies,
and control systems.
>>Vedic culture
from ancient India
speaks of a grand and measurable
cycle of 26,000 years,
consisting of ascending light
ages and descending dark ages.
>>In the higher ages,
you see this philosophy
of living in tune with nature.
People talk about
speaking with the gods
and a lot of interaction.
Virtually every ancient culture
has stories about the gods
if you go back far enough.
And you see a lot of
matriarchal cultures
if you go back far enough.
You know, the dark
age times, you
have this very brutal,
paternalistic type of ruling.
>>I think it's difficult
for us to understand
the ancient Egyptians
because we've
got the paradigm of the
patriarchal structures
on top of it, and
we're looking through
our own cultural lenses.
>>Has world culture always been
male dominated and patriarchal?
If not, what would a
matriarchal system look like?
Matriarchy is not the
opposite of patriarchy,
with women dominating
and controlling men.
It is based on balance between
the masculine and feminine
and harmony with nature.
This was exemplified
in ancient Egypt, which
was known in the old language
as the land of Khent.
Hakim Awyan received teachings
about the Khenesian people
in the distant past.
>>The ancient life
system in Asia
came, the commission
tradition being passed down
through the mother.
Mother is the teacher.
Not the father, like
patriarchy system.
This is matriarchy.
She is the goddess.
She is everything in the house.
>>Based on the
countless artifacts
that show the high
status of the feminine,
it seems that women
have the same status
as men, if not a higher status.
>>In the museum,
you have statues.
You notice that the
woman put the arm
around the man's shoulder.
And that shows are they equal?
No.
Woman was the upper
head in the family.
When she put her arm around the
man's shoulder, she's saying,
this is mine.
You also see that the
sculpture in the old days
put the feminine
wig on a man's head
when he promoted more
to a woman than a man.
>>Men's wigs were layered in
different lengths, like steps.
Women's wigs were parted in
the middle, smooth, and all one
length.
When a man wore a woman's
wig, it was an indication
that he had high status.
>>Only men with wisdom
would wear the women's wig.
So these are the scribes,
and the physicians,
and the rest of them.
>>What you can do is go
back into the Old Kingdom.
And what you find is obviously
a fair amount of equality,
where the goddesses are revered
as reverently as the gods.
And there's even the
instance, for example,
of Hathor, the exception in
that she's the only deity that
has a temple column
all to herself,
So the great mother, the
great feminine principle,
occupies a very
important part in
the whole Egyptian symbology,
the whole Egyptian doctrine.
There's absolutely
no doubt about that.
Women could own property, had
as much rights as the men.
They could divorce
as easily as the men.
Of all the known
sophisticated civilizations
that we have access to, probably
women were better off in Egypt
than they were anywhere else.
>>Perhaps we are
looking at ancient Egypt
from a patriarchal viewpoint.
We should let the
symbolism and the artifacts
tell their own story.
The frescoes we see
lining temple walls
in Egypt and on stone slabs in
museums around the world each
tell their own story.
We see the same images
repeated again and again
in Egyptian art.
By learning to
decode these symbols,
we can look back in
time, peeling back
the layers of
patriarchy that cloud
our understanding
of ancient history.
Then, we can begin to
decipher the messages
that the ancients left us.
>>You have to accept that we're
dealing with a period that
occurred at least
5,000 years ago.
And the little we
know of it comes
from archaic texts
that were written
in a very occult
and esoteric manner.
And they weren't
meant for you and me.
>>The secrets of the
ancient Egyptians
were not for the commoners.
>>But for a very,
very small group
of elites who had to be
initiated over many, many years
to appreciate what
these texts said.
>>They were for the
high-level initiates,
which were people
who were trained.
And they would go through
different initiations, tests
that would help
them be wise, that
would help them confront their
fears, that would balance them,
balance them in the
body, mind, and emotions.
>>Initiates were
students who were
given rudimentary
instruction on the mystery
traditions of Mayan and
Egyptian cosmic cycles.
>>As they approached higher
levels of consciousness,
they came to respect different
aspects of themselves that
were represented in the
feminine and the masculine.
But they went
further and called it
sacred feminine and
sacred masculine, which
meant the purest form that was
actually connected to the two
hemispheres of the brain.
>>Feminine consciousness
corresponds
to the right
hemisphere of the brain
and the left side of the body.
In contrast, masculine
consciousness
corresponds to the
left side of the brain
and the right side of the body.
Patriarchal
consciousness focuses
on history, linear time, dogma,
rationality, waking reality,
and science.
Matriarchal
consciousness focuses
on eternity, cycles of time,
ritual, magic, altered states,
and art.
If we examine the art,
we can see the characters
almost always have one
foot slightly forward.
In some instances, they
take a big step forward.
In each scene, the goddess has
her left foot slightly leading,
showing awareness of
the feminine principles
of timelessness and magic.
The pharaoh, however, takes a
large step with his right foot.
This shows that he is
grounded in the masculine.
Similarly, we often see
images with two left hands.
It has been suggested that this
is just a stylistic convention.
But we should not impose
our ideas on Egyptian art.
Left hands suggest giving, while
right hands suggest taking.
>>In our culture, we've
practically erased the feminine
in favor of the masculine,
reading, writing,
and arithmetic.
Art, music isn't as important.
And our society is completely
unbalanced because of it.
The ancients knew
that you could not
achieve high states
of consciousness
without these being in balance.
And so they revered the
pure qualities of either.
And so when we say sacred
feminine and sacred masculine,
this was the highest
form of respect
so that the female would have
both feminine and masculine
balanced within
her, and the male
would have both feminine and
masculine balanced within him.
>>Balance between
the sacred feminine
and the sacred masculine runs
deep in Egyptian symbolism.
We see gods and goddesses
carrying a crook, a flail,
and a staff in
various combinations.
The crook represents the
balance of the emotions.
The flail symbolizes
the balance of the mind.
And the staff depicts
the balance of the body.
Once balance of the body,
the mind, and the emotions
was achieved, consciousness
could develop.
Notice the staff
always has the head
of a bird and a forked base.
The staff never
touches the ground.
This indicates that we are
spiritual beings having
an Earth experience.
We are incarnated
here, but our souls
can go beyond the Earthly plane.
Egyptian temples were places
where spiritual work was done.
An arch with a winged disk is
always found at the entrance
to temples.
The winged disk depicts
a vulture and a snake.
>>Snake been taken as
a symbol of masculine,
and the vulture is feminine.
>>The feminine and the
masculine had to be in balance.
The lower self was to
surrender to the higher self
in order to enter
the sacred space.
This meant that the ego
of the everyday world
had to step aside while
the higher self connected
with cosmic energy.
>>Vulture can fly.
Snake can't fly.
But both have the same glands.
System of life is
based on glands.
>>The glands were the
most important features
of the human being.
>>One of the most misunderstood
functions of the human body
today is our glandular
or endocrine system.
Glands secrete hormones
that trigger reproduction.
Fertility and procreation
had high value
in Egyptian ideology.
>>The ancients were
very much in tune
with how the energy
systems in the body,
or the chakras as the East
Indians would talk about them,
were connected to the glands.
>>Ancient teachings speak
of seven energy centers
in the body called chakras.
Parallels occur between
the concepts of chakras,
or energy centers in the
body, and our glands.
It appears they are two ways
of describing the same thing,
through spirituality
and through science.
Ancient Egyptians had a
holistic understanding
of the significance of the
glands and their central role
in reproduction and
in consciousness.
If we can decode
the symbols, we see
that the sacredness
of procreation
is readily visible in
ancient Egyptian art.
>>When you see a
boy or a man, you
see a kind of a
bottle on his head.
That is not a bottle,
or not a white crown
symbolizing Upper Egypt, as my
colleagues and scholars say.
No.
This is a gland in
the human body known
as the thymus, located
behind the lungs.
>>The thymus is most active
when a baby is in utero.
It continues to be
active until puberty.
Then it begins to
shrink and is atrophied
when we stop being fertile.
It was a critical
activator of consciousness.
>>The crown is another.
It's the womb, the placenta.
The thymus and the
womb are connected
for the cycle of life.
When you see the double
crown, the red crown
is the womb and the placenta.
The white crown
is the thymus, who
has its influence on the womb.
That's the symbol of
one of the glands.
>>In the early 1900s,
alchemist Schwaller de Lubicz
presented a work called
The Temple of Man.
It demonstrated that the
architects of the Luxor Temple
used sacred geometry,
which reflected
the exact proportions
of the human body.
As in all Egyptian temples,
the most sacred space
was located at the back of the
temple, the Holy of Holies,
which corresponded
to the pineal gland.
When activated,
the pineal gland is
said to stimulate the
evolution of higher
states of consciousness.
If the temples were
metaphors of the human body,
the pineal gland corresponded
with the Holy of Holies.
At the entrance to the most
sacred part of the temple
stand tall pillars representing
the masculine and the feminine,
papyrus and the blue lotus.
The papyrus and the
lotus reflect the balance
between the feminine and
the masculine principles
and are shown
together throughout
ancient Egyptian art.
>>The blue lotus is
a symbol of life,
and this plant, blossom,
flower, it grows in the water,
like water lilies.
It's where the
ancient commissions
believe that life starts in
water and in that lotus form.
>>We have seen there are always
multiple layers of meaning
embedded in ancient
Egyptian symbols.
Is there another reason why
the blue lotus was so important
in Egyptian ceremonies?
In ancient Egyptian art,
we see countless instances
of part animal,
part human forms.
What were the ancients trying to
convey by these curious images?
>>There's a technical
term for such creatures
that anthropologists use.
They call them therianthropes.
And that's from the
Greek, therian, which
means wild beast, and
anthropos, which means man.
They are combinations
of beast and man.
It's not an accident that
all of the gods of Egypt
are therianthropic.
They have, of course,
fully human forms.
But in most cases,
they also have
forms that are part
animal and part human.
So you may consider
Horus, the head of a hawk
and the body of a man.
You may consider Sekhmet,
a lioness with a human body
and a lion's head.
Or Anubis, of course,
the guide of souls,
who is part jackal
and part human.
>>Egypt isn't the
only place where
these half animal, half
human images have been found.
Half a world away, we
find clues to decode
these mysterious symbols.
>>Throughout the
Amazon today, shamans
working with the powerful
visionary brew, ayahuasca,
a combination of two
plants-- very frequently,
they will, after
their visions, when
they return to the normal,
alert, problem-solving state
of consciousness, they
will actually sit down
and, recollecting what they
saw in the visionary state,
will paint and draw the
images that they saw.
And the most common motif
of these ayahuasca visions
is the therianthrope,
creatures that
are part animal and
part human in form.
This specific characteristic
of the ancient Egyptian gods
is one of the
things that tells me
that our ancient Egyptian
ancestors were using
altered states of
consciousness to explore
the realms of spirit.
>>Again we see images
of blue lotuses.
Is there another, less obvious
interpretation of this symbol?
>>Altering of
consciousness has been
done by a variety of different
methods and techniques,
most commonly in
shamanistic cultures.
Still to this day, it's done
by using hallucinogenic plants
which, as it were,
switch the receiver
wavelength of the
brain and allow us
to tune in to other realities.
Of course, there are a range
of non-drug techniques,
rhythmic dancing,
certain kinds of music.
Certain kinds of spaces have an
effect on human consciousness.
But there's a great
deal of evidence
that they made use
of a potion involving
the blue lotus and
the mandrake root,
possibly also the
opium poppy as well,
to enter a visionary state,
and in that visionary state
to explore, navigate, and
learn about the realm that
lies beyond death.
And they had very concrete
and specific ideas
about this, which are expressed
in the ancient Egyptian books
of the dead, going right
back to pyramid texts.
This was not a
work of imagination
on the part of the priests.
This was a work of
documentation of
their out-of-body
exploration of realms
that lie beyond the
merely physical.
>>Is it possible for us to learn
to access other realms today?
Can we expand our
capacity to perceive?
Do we need new ways to
describe these phenomena?
>>If I can say I
show you in my dream.
You can ask, what did you see?
Then I say the dream.
Now, did I saw you?
The verb see is not there
because I did see you
in my dream, but not with my
eyes, because I was asleep.
So how did that happen?
It must be a sense put all this
vision to me without my eyes.
But I said when I speak,
limit vocabularities,
to say I saw you in my dream.
No, I didn't see you, but
there's no other way to say.
>>Could the ancients have
mastered innate human abilities
that we have forgotten?
>>You can tell if
that bird on the tree
is happy or
frightened from a cat.
Yeah?
You can tell that the
donkey's annoyed or happy
by the vibration and the sound.
And that's what we want
us to notice, the sound.
It's not the word you said.
It's how being said.
You can tell if this vibration,
the truth or not truth.
It's natural.
It's healthy.
People, they use all the senses,
the full capacity of senses.
>>The five senses as
we know them today
were symbolized by the scarab.
>>And when you see
the scarab, you
are looking at a human skull.
It divides three
sides, three sections.
The front head, symbolized
by ancient people as seven.
Seven openings.
Two, four, six, seven.
That is the front head.
And these are the receivers.
You see with, you hear
with, you taste with.
Everything.
On the left side is
the consciousness side,
and that is the
daily deeds digested
every moment you look at things.
But the other side
is subconscious side,
something you are unable
to explain what's going on.
>>It seems clear
that the ancients
knew about the
subconscious mind.
They had the power to reach
beyond the senses, something
we began to be aware of
with the writings of Freud
and the advent of psychology
in the early 1900s.
>>Don't compare people
of today like the people
of the ancient days.
The people of ancient
days were healthy,
they able to use their senses.
We looking at things
as a crippled people.
We only have five senses.
We supposed to have 360 senses.
360.
And only five is recognized.
We've got the glands
of the senses.
But we didn't use it.
And any muscles you
don't use, it shrink.
Oh, yes.
>>How can we begin to
imagine that the ancients had
the capacity of 360 senses?
Perhaps a metaphor for
the full spectrum senses
could be a sphere.
Is it possible for us to move
beyond our five senses today?
>>Our five familiar senses
have been evolved by evolution
to connect us to the
physical and material realm.
But we have, I like to think
of it as a secret doorway
inside our own minds,
which can be opened
in altered states of
consciousness through which we
may project our consciousness
into other realms
and dimensions, and those
then become accessible to us.
>>Could it be that
the ancient Egyptians
were accessing supernatural
realms through heightened
perceptions that came
from full spectrum senses?
>>I've come to the conclusion
that it's really impossible
to understand ancient
Egyptian civilization
and ancient Egyptian
spirituality and religion
until you get to
grips with the fact
that the priests
of that religion
were deliberately,
and in a targeted way,
cultivating altered
states of consciousness
in order to access the
supernatural realm.
They know what shamans all over
the world still know today,
that in the alert,
problem-solving state
of consciousness
that is particularly
valued by Western
industrial society,
you are not going to have
supernatural or spiritual
experiences of any kind.
It doesn't mean that the
supernatural and spirit
realms are not there,
because they are.
They are all around
us all the time.
But our senses cannot
tune into them.
>>It seems that
the ancients must
have been tuned into something
that allowed them to build
sacred structures using
monumental architecture.
Today, we consider ourselves
to be highly educated,
yet engineers are
at a loss when they
try to build even
a small pyramid.
Has our system of
education diverted us
from what was common
knowledge in ancient times?
>>There were no schools
and universities
like what we have today.
We've been influenced by
this system of teaching.
Today, we think it's a primitive
life, that no education,
they haven't been to school, and
how can they build a pyramid.
They don't know figures.
How can they build this?
But we don't know that
the senses we have
make the impossible possible.
The impossible to
us, which is based on
ignorance make it
possible because knowing
is a very great
power, just to know.
>>The most important ceremony
for teaching the populace
how to live well was the
weighing of the heart.
It reveals what the
ancients believed
happened in the
moments after death.
>>Initially in the ceremony
of the weighing of the hearts,
the deceased would meet Anubis,
who would say, you're dead.
Let's have your heart.
We're going to weight it
against the feather of truth.
If your heart was heavy because
you had done something immoral,
you weren't allowed to
go to the other side.
So the populace learned that
they had to be light of heart
in order to live well.
>>As ancient Egypt slipped
into patriarchal ways of being
and thinking, the old spiritual
ideology became codified,
and organized religion
became dominated
by the Amun priesthood.
>>The Amun priesthood
had a lot of power.
And they were in
a position to have
people pay for their salvation.
It used to be that
your heart was
weighed against a
feather of truth.
But in later pictures
of the ceremony
of the weighing of
the heart, you'll
see Horus holding
onto the scale.
And you could pay the
priesthood for shabti dolls.
And the more of them you
had, the more likelihood
you could buy the
lightness of heart
instead of being light of heart.
Well, this is a
fundamental change
in terms of how to live well.
And I think that we still
are living in that way.
>>History is written
by its victors.
And as the patriarchy
took hold, much effort
was put into suppressing
Egypt's matriarchal past.
>>There's a few
pharaohs who were
erased from the kings list.
Hatshepsut was one,
Akhenaten was one,
and Tutankhamen was another.
>>The legacy of the
controversial pharaoh Akhenaten
was almost lost forever with
the complete destruction
of the city he and Nefertiti
had founded at Amarna.
>>Now, very little
was known about Amarna
until there was an earthquake,
and the pylons at Karnak
were filled with these little
blocks that had been cut up.
And they used them from
Amarna to just put--
as filler inside the pylons.
So when archaeologists found
them and started putting them
back together, they realized
there was a very large story
here.
>>For the ancients,
life on Earth
mirrored the motion of
the stars in the sky.
>>What the ancients
did is they would
have the capital be at
Heliopolis in the north,
for 2,160 years.
And then they would
the capital be
at Thebes, which is now Karnak,
for that length of time.
When Akhenaten came into
power in the New Kingdom
of the 18th Dynasty, it
was right at the time when
things were supposed to shift.
>>During this time,
the patriarchy
gained momentum, with the
Amun priesthood steadily
becoming more powerful.
>>Akhenaten happened
to have been
born at one of these points
of return or beginning.
He believed that he was
subjugated, like all pharaohs,
to a cosmic law, to
the law of Ma'at.
What happens up
there, they believed,
was controlling
matters on Earth.
And things happened up there
that dictated to Akhenaten
that he had to move his base.
And had to reinstall
the original rituals.
>>When it came time for
Nefertiti and Akhenaten
to change the capital, they knew
that the Amun priesthood was
in power, and that they would
really fight them on this.
>>If he had moved
Heliopolis, there
would have been civil war.
If he had stayed in
Karnak, he would have not
performed what he had to perform
to follow the law, cosmic law.
He finally settles
for a mid-point.
>>So instead of moving
the capital back north,
they decided to take a
point exactly in the middle,
between the two.
And this was Amarna.
>>Art created by artisans
in the Amarna period
is exquisite and
markedly different
from the art in other periods.
For the first time,
Egyptian royal art
depicted the pharaoh
and his family
all together and clearly showing
affection for each other.
>>They built this
wonderful place.
And they had gorgeous palaces.
And people were creative.
It was peaceful.
There were flowers and nature.
And people lived
a leisurely life.
But what it was was a
return to true spirituality.
He ruled with his
coregent, Nefertiti.
The feminine was honored.
>>In this transition,
Akhenaten and Nefertiti
rejected the
established religion
of the corrupt Amun priesthood.
They had a profound
respect for solar energy,
known as the Aten.
>>And so returning to
this was a big threat
to the Amun priesthood.
And so they plotted
to take Amarna down.
>>They eventually
brought it down,
and they destroyed his city.
And they reinstalled
the ancient gods,
with all their iconography.
>>They simply
destroyed everything,
every trace of them.
If they didn't find the ruins
of Akhenaten's temples used
as fill, rubble fill,
in the walls of Karnak,
there'd be almost no
sign of Akhenaten.
>>Amarna was a peaceful
society with great creativity
and beauty.
Yet scholars in
traditional Egyptology
continue to portray
Pharaoh Akhenaten
as a deformed, renegade,
heretical leader.
>>They see him as a heretical
king-- it's quite the opposite.
The heretics were the priests.
He was not heretical.
He, in fact, was somebody
who was determined
to adhere to the divine laws.
And he went to the cross for it.
>>After the fall of
Akhenaten, Tutankhaten,
a boy of only nine years
old, became pharaoh.
>>Now, because we found
Tutankhamen's tomb intact,
we know a lot about him
and the life that he lived.
Now, he was raised at Amarna.
Now, some people say that
Akhenaten was his father.
We don't have DNA tests.
We haven't found the
mummy of Akhenaten.
We don't know that for sure.
But it's interesting that he
started out as Tutankhaten,
because at Amarna, they
worshipped the Aten.
But after he took the throne,
they opened the temples again.
They moved away from Amarna.
It seems that as soon as the
Amun priesthood found out
that he actually
was of the Aten,
they changed his
name to Tutankhamen,
that suddenly he disappeared.
>>After 10 years of leadership,
when Tutankhamen was 19,
he died mysteriously.
His mummy was x-rayed,
revealing a fractured skull,
suggesting a blow to
the back of the head.
>>It seems that he
was buried in a rush.
His tomb is very
small, and close to it,
there were a whole
lot of mummies
that were moved in a
cache and put aside.
So it's almost like there
were several mummies
from other dynasties
that were in the tomb
that he ended up in.
And then they took
furniture from Amarna
and buried him there.
>>Though the tomb of King
Tut left us many clues,
his fate remains a mystery.
Another casualty of the
patriarchal retelling
of history is the story
of Queen Hatshepsut.
>>Hatshepsut came earlier
in the 18th Dynasty.
She started out
by being a queen.
And then she became pharaoh.
Hatshepsut was a wise
and powerful leader
who reestablished trade
networks with Egypt's neighbors,
building the prosperity
of the 18th Dynasty.
>>She was certainly
ruling for a long time
at a period of tremendous
peace and prosperity.
The artwork was never
better than under her reign.
>>Had she been male,
she would likely
have been remembered
in history books
as the best ruler of Egypt.
Regardless of her success as a
leader, she is still an enigma.
There has been much
controversy about Hatshepsut.
it could be due to
the patriarchy having
little tolerance of images
of an empowered woman.
No one seems to agree on
who the real Hatshepsut was.
>>There have been massive
books written on Hatshepsut.
And again, there are
no real conclusions.
Obviously, Hatshepsut must
have been a very able ruler
because she stayed there
apparently for 22 years.
>>But somehow, about 20
years after she passed,
her statues were broken
and all put into a pit.
When they found
them, they started
putting them back together.
But, like Akhenaten and
Nefertiti, the Amarna period,
they were largely forgotten
because the people who
came after were very threatened.
And they somehow wanted
to destroy all trace.
Hatshepsut, Nefertiti and
Akhenaten, Tutankhamen, they
were the ones that really
understood spirituality
in some way.
I suppose there
was no money to be
made if you weren't
selling salvation.
>>We may never know how the
high courts of ancient Egypt
were run.
It seems likely that
the stories passed down
through the patriarchal
institutions
of the 19th and 20th
centuries may have misled us.
The peace and prosperity
of the 18th Dynasty,
particularly in the time
of Hatshepsut, Nefertiti,
and Akhenaten, had to do
with honoring the feminine
in balance with the masculine.
Looking at Egyptian
artifacts and frescoes,
it is clear that the
feminine principle
played a prominent
role in society
and was cherished and revered.
The feminine principle
was articulated
in the concept of
a great mother who
was central to the
ancient Egyptian worldview
and was echoed by
other world cultures.
>>The Milky Way in the sky is
mythologized in various ways,
in various traditions,
in various cultures
around the world.
And it's often thought of,
almost universally thought
of, as a great mother principle,
the great cosmic mother
in the sky.
>>In ancient Egypt,
biology meant cosmology,
and both were considered sacred.
>>When you look at the
cosmology in terms of biology
as describing events that
happen inside of a womb.
And the womb happens to be the
womb of the mother goddess.
>>In both Mayan and
ancient Egyptian cosmology,
the center of the Milky Way
Galaxy is where stars are born.
Metaphorically, it is the womb
of the great cosmic mother,
represented as
Isis giving birth.
>>We keep looking at how the
ancient Egyptians thought.
And everything fed
biology and procreation.
How we got here, how we came
into existence, biology.
And then how we left and how
our soul continues to live.
And we can see that there aren't
really that many symbols that
aren't pertaining to balance of
the body, mind, and emotions,
and to balance between the
two hemispheres of the brain.
Once we can embrace
that, then it's
easier to understand
the Egyptians.
>>That switch from
matriarchy to patriarchy,
I think it's the cause of what's
on the world now of conflicts
and disagreement and
showing of power.
Yeah.
>>Already, at the beginning
of the First Dynasty
of ancient Egypt,
Egypt was moving
from being matriarchal
to coming into more
patriarchal ways of
being and thinking.
There were a few periods where
the ancient, ancient knowledge
was remembered.
But it's important to
remember that there
was a lot of ancient Egypt
prior to the dynasties
and in the early periods that
did not represent those values.
So the parts of Egypt that
I find the most interesting
come from the memory of
times that came further back.
>>I've said many times
that healthy people,
they got the power which
is-- unhealthy people
haven't got it.
And I want you
and all my friends
and all my beloved to
know that you have it.
And when you know that,
you will work on it
so it can bring you to stronger.
As I said before, the
senses, just like muscles.
If you don't use,
it shrink and go.